all right folks welcome back it's going
to be a short little
commentary on basically what i went with
today
giving commentary through twitter
you're welcome to go over my twitter
feed and go through it it's a lot
because i was going all day long with it
and
i was kind of walking people through
their own charts to kind of get a better
feel for what to expect and where the
real setup was going to be for today
before i get into all that just know
that everything that i said is time and
date stamped so that way there's no time
for worry about it and
only the diligent are going to want to
go through something like this and i put
the
readers on twitter
through the meat grinder today i
literally took them through
every minor fluctuation
explain why it should do this and should
do that and ultimately setting up way
before it happened uh the three o'clock
to four o'clock short i outlined it in
detail gave the reasons why it should
take place
everything's there and everything i'm
gonna say in
short highlight here
is obviously found in the tweets
so
we have an outside day here yesterday
big down closed day
an outside day is a day that's higher
than the previous day and lowered in the
previous day's low
so here's previous day's high
it went higher his previous stays low it
went lower so all of this range is
outside of the previous day's range
and it closed down
when this happens there's
typically this type of price action
formation but it's really included
with the
odds in your favor
if you're trading down to an old low but
fall short of it okay this is usually
where that double bottom idea comes in
and it feels safe
to
if you're trading like me
look for a run through that old low
but if they stop it short
it tends to be
a choppy day
especially if we have an outside date
with down close
so let's go into an hourly chart
all right so here's the price action for
today we're going to look inside this
little tiny little fractal right here
and
i can zoom in here
all right
so we have
old highs in here if you look at the
high here it comes in at
39 33 and a quarter i mentioned that
level today mentioned it a few times
that we were going to trade up to that
and
i built the idea that
looking at price studying in the way
that i teach it
it would be very easy to fall victim
in this type of trading day whereas
choppy it's listless trading back and
forth
and how to anticipate it what to look
for and i want to go into the
five-minute chart real quick
okay and here's a five-minute chart
and i want to add some annotations here
so here is the
33 and a quarter level that's why that
level was mentioned in the tweets
this is the low at 38 72 and a quarter
and the old low on the daily chart that
did not get traded through is at
38.55 and notice we just fell short of
reaching that
at 38.56
so we went one handle short of that
started trading higher
and i mentioned how
the market
many times can present opportunities
that look like it's likely to form
a setup but it really doesn't really
come to fruition and if you look at the
range
here
okay i'm highlighting
[Music]
this theory that you got right there
okay how we treated up into it
started working lower created a small
little fair value gap in here
bumped into that traded lower nothing
really in here
to work with in terms of the model so
nothing here is a short we were talking
about all that this morning
so
as the market was trading around in this
area i mentioned how it was likely to be
a 50 50
probability that means
it's likely to go higher
just as well as it is likely to trade
lower okay so what's the benefit in that
obviously anybody can come into it with
a 50 50 expectation but it really
statistically moves to 50 50 when we
start trading back into the middle of
the range okay so
this imbalance here the fair value gap
it should have offered a little bit more
movement lower why wouldn't it go down
and take out this short term low it went
below this short-term low here and then
started rallying working towards the
relative equal highs over here
i mentioned early on that it would go to
39 33 and a quarter that's where it
would go
but i favored in other words in terms of
bias for the longer term i favored
the 3855 level down here for sell side i
don't think that they're done with it
down there
but we have to take every single trade
idea based on its current dealing ranges
and what's a dealing range well dealing
range would be like from this high down
to that low and we measure those
yes it trades up into that imbalance and
trades down to a short term low that's a
tradable opportunity there
but it's not
very clear
after that it just goes back and forth
chopping
short-term lows are taken high high is
taken here we trade back and forth all
of this is really ugly type of price
action
and i mentioned that we would go to you
know 39 33 and a quarter back here and
it ran right up into it cleared those
relative equal highs
broke down traded back down into the
range and i started talking about how
the real
setup that would be formed
by my content by the things that make
sense in the algorithm would deliver a
specific
framework today
i told everybody on twitter you can go
back and look at it to take a vertical
line and add it to
three o'clock
new york local time
and
four o'clock
and that would be the setup
that forms
to take us back down into
[Music]
the middle of the range now i
tell everyone the tweets to study
the middle of the daily range okay so
what does that mean if you look at what
the high was
and the low
okay right in here if that's the middle
of the range
we ran above the short-term high so we
have relative equal highs here and
relative equal highs here so there's
buy-side resting here i outlined how the
market would use
the
running up
to take out the buy stops to squeeze
anybody that was short and trail their
stop-loss down
and also to induce people into thinking
it's going to go higher so that way it
builds up liquidity below these lows
what kind of liquidity sell side
liquidity because they're going to
protect their what long positions but
the main thing was focusing on the
middle middle of the range here
so if we're looking for
setups that are going to be based on a
run above for buy side and pull back
into the range
it needs to be specific in terms of time
i gave a very specific window between
three o'clock and four o'clock in the
afternoon
so we go into an out uh i'm sorry i'm an
hour we're gonna go into a minute chart
okay and
you can see here
the market rallies above
bumps into the buy side liquidity
smart money uses that
to go short this is exactly what i
outlined beforehand it's all in the
tweets it's not ambiguous it's very
specific i tell you exactly when the
trade is going to form i tell you
exactly how it's going to happen i'll
tell you the framework the logic the
narrative everything it's going to pull
back to the middle of the range
here is the breakdown
here let me take
this is this a swing low
yes is this a fair bag gap
yes does it trade back up into
that range yes
it works lower
back into the middle of the range
let me put this back where i want
okay and if i add
the annotations
you can see right there
i sold short at 39.40 and three quarters
and i took
four of them off at 3908
and three quarters middle of the range
and
you can see
there still is
a position
there with partials taken off already
and
the limit order down here at 38.55 it
doesn't matter if it goes down there now
i don't care but i have a position in
play should it do so
and
i want everyone to understand that there
are people out there obviously who want
to say stupid things because they either
want to get a rise out of me or they're
they feel that their competition and
they want to get in a you know
a lot more attention for themselves
honestly you know
if you want to build the tension around
yourself just do things that weren't
people's attention placed on you
but for anyone that obviously did not
spend time with me today
this is going to be rather boring it's
going to be pointless to you but i
walked through all of the things that
days like this
where it's choppy
okay where it's just going back and
forth back and forth
this was not read wrong i purposely took
everybody in to the marketplace through
their own chart and told them to think
about what was going on in their own
mind what other traders would be
thinking so that way you could
really capture what it feels like to be
in there looking for your own setups and
try to think critically about it
i outline in advance where the setup
based on the things i teach up here
where it runs the buy stops we pair with
that and then pull back to the middle
range and it does so beautifully
all of this in here is really hard
choppy price action it's very very
difficult to trade in those types of
ranges because
they can come back on you stop you out
and just go nowhere for a long period of
time so
if you know what you're looking for in
terms of what the algorithm is going to
do and the algorithm on days like this
this is called a consolidation day
and what happens is this
the market starts trading
creates an initial range and then stays
in that range until
the afternoon at three o'clock
it used to be the bond close that
started this whole thing but now it's
just three o'clock at four o'clock when
equities close the closing bell
that
sets the tone for
on close orders
so what that means is what was going on
prior to three o'clock the market was
rallying up what did it go up for the
buy side liquidity
but traders gonna look at that as a
breakout to go higher
and they're going to pair that with the
market
participants that are considered smart
money
so that's exactly what i outlined this
is exactly what transpired everybody in
the
twitter feed we're following along i
mean granted there were a few people and
you can go through and see who they were
they weren't really paying attention
because they came into the conversation
late and i went a long day today just
tweeting between tweeting uh what you
don't know is i had my son sitting
next to me and i'm outlining things to
him and i'm explaining what she takes
but
should take place rather in the
marketplace plus i'm also sending out
tweets so
my mind was divided between all of that
so it was very difficult not only to
predict what you all were thinking and
thinking about what should be
transpiring in price action plus
literally walking through with my son
what to anticipate expect and see in
price action and through his lens uh he
was actually executing in a live account
uh he has his
amp
account linked right through trading
view so you can trade directly right
from the chart so
he's plugging away on my laptop right
next to me and
his account
was able to grow from six thousand
dollars at the beginning of the week now
it said ten thousand dollars
that's real money that's live money and
you know when i
when i hear about people
that
say the stuff that i teach doesn't work
or if i can't call the market and when
people sit there and they spend the
entire day with me and i outline
everything and i outlined this very
specific trade here way before it even
forms before the market even went up
there i'm explaining all that
that it went right to where i said it
was going to go
run the stops
then sync it back down the middle of
range go back and look at the tweets i
can't edit them
and i'm not deleting anything okay so if
i make a mistake a spelling error you're
just gonna have to deal with it because
you know i don't want any deleted tweets
zero so if you'd like to follow me and
all that stuff just save everything and
save it all i don't care
the point is i want you to save them as
what exactly what i said the last time i
was on twitter save my tweets
save them because you're gonna see
things
that prove obviously what i'm talking
about it proves that i have the
visibility that i can see these things
beforehand
and there's a lot of people out there
that will just
not want to put the work into learning
this because it seems too hard they just
want to put an indicator on the chart
and you know that's all i want give me a
macd give me a stochastic moving average
and we'll call it a day
but
they don't give you logic and narrative
they just give you
a crunching of the numbers
and that type of thing isn't in my
opinion not very beneficial because
you're you're beating up the data of
price action versus reading and
understanding what the tape is and
that's exactly what i was doing today
with everybody on twitter
so
uh there is an application that i was
made aware of on twitter that allows
someone to do i think if i'm not
mistaken they call them a space or
spaces or if i said that wrong forgive
me
i'm not going to edit this video
but apparently there's something on the
twitter app that you can kind of like
talk
and i think it's just audio where you
just talk and people that are
i guess following you on twitter they
can hear you talk so i guess i'm in a
way it could be like an ict squawk box
you know i can kind of like
talk out loud
about what i'm looking at what i think
is useful
it's not a trade setup obviously
or a signal service type thing because
that's not what i do i know i don't do
those things so we were studying price
action together over my shoulder through
tweets
and uh this was the move i was outlining
well in advance early in the day i was
setting the stage for all this back and
forth motion
that
they're going to drive it higher to
squeeze out traders that were already
short from previous day
and trailer stop loss right above
the old high back
here they bumped it here on a very
shallow run let me take this off
they bumped it on the
let me take everything actually
these relative equal highs as it dropped
down they trailed their stop-loss those
that are short
so they ran out and bumped it on a
shallow basis and then one more time
they ram it up in there and clear them
out real nice so
the logic i was teaching was that would
be utilized for smart money at the close
between three o'clock and four o'clock
so
they ran it up there
all the buy orders that were resting
above here are here in the form of
protecting short stops
or not short stop short positions acting
as their stop-loss order when the market
trades above that those buy stops that
are protective in nature
they become a rushing liquidity wave
okay of willing buyers at the market
so willing buyers at the market
at three o'clock on a day like this
where it's consolidated
it's going to want to go back to the
middle of the range and that's why i
posted until we did study the middle of
range of today's range okay
so
when you
look at that type of event it's going to
range bound trade between
here's the 9 30 or so right
there okay so the low of the day there
and the high the day there so split that
in the middle there's your midpoint and
it's going to want to gravitate back to
that
so
when you look at
price action days like this
and if you're caught up in it you know
what you're doing or you feel like it's
just being chopped up
wait until three o'clock because many
times at three o'clock to four
the algorithm will do something where it
goes outside the bounds of the daily
range like it did here
okay it trades up into it and then
rams it down and
nobody's really allowed to make any
money anyone that was long freaking out
here gets raped across the coals anyone
that's short gets knocked out with a
stop loss and then a losing position
and most of the time traders are too
afraid to go in here going short where
people that like myself i outlined today
in the front of
you know 20 000 people
they all seen it they all watched me
call it and
there it is
there's my
phil there's the middle of the range
partial and i got two in float
and just for the sake of
completeness i'm just going to take one
of them off while i'm doing this
recording
so that way i don't have to worry about
it at all you can go to my stop
and or
go to my limit and either one's fine by
me i don't care okay
so
i'm going to try to do a
little bit of tomorrow's session i'm not
going to spend the entire day obviously
because i have other things that take
care of but i've scheduled in today
because i had to work with my son and
his
analysis and learning all that stuff so
i was very proud to see him pushing the
button on his account
he did very very well
had
one or two uh hairy moments where he
wasn't thinking like i was hoping he'd
be thinking
and had a losing trade
was able to recoup that
and push this account to over ten
thousand dollars so i'm very proud to uh
see him engaging and doing his own thing
and trying to figure out this stuff on
his own
so
yeah i think
we'll talk a little bit through that
twitter application tomorrow
i don't know how long ago but uh we'll
see what we get from that
and i think that's going to be it for
this one
until i'll talk to you next time be safe